{:title "Chain of Vapor Piles"
 :layout :codex
 :author "bennotsi"
 :page-index 13
 :navbar? false
 :section "The Doomsday Codex"}

The ability to use Chain of Vapor efficiently within Doomsday piles is 
one of the most important reasons to play Ideas Unbound-based Doomsday 
storm combo over any other storm deck in Legacy. A single Chain of Vapor 
in the deck allows the Doomsday player to play through hate cards like 
Gaddock Teeg or Leyline of Sanctity, that can be quite effective against 
storm decks like ANT or TES, but barely disrupt Doomsday.

In Chain of Vapor-piles, Chain of Vapor is used to bounce your own 
Sensei's Divining Top in response to tapping Sensei's Divining Top to 
draw a card. At this point, you can sacrifice lands to copy the Chain of 
Vapor to also bounce any of the 0-mana artifacts you control to replay 
them later for additional storm. When you're done bouncing your own 
stuff, you can sacrifice another land to copy Chain of Vapor one last 
time to bounce a nonland permanent your opponent controls. After 
resolving multiple copies, the hardest part comes, which is remembering 
to draw a card from SDT's ability. Remember, you don't have to put the 
Sensei's Divining Top on top of your library if you have returned it to 
your hand, because of rule 407 "An object that moves from one zone to 
another becomes a new object with no memory of, or relation to, its 
previous existence." Effectively, by casting Chain of Vapor on your 
Sensei's Divining Top you pay 1U (assuming you replay the SDT), add 2 or 
more storm, bounce a nonland permanent your opponent controls, and draw 
a card.

As such Chain of Vapor can be used to enable the SDT + cantrip pile: ``` 
SDT in play + CoV in hand: -> LED, IU, LED, LED, BW(ToA) BBB+1U (5) 9 
Storm ``` Now this pile demonstrates that you may use Chain of Vapor to 
enable a double cantrip pile and simultaneously bounce a nonland 
permanent your opponent controls. This may already sound great, but 
requires that you have the Chain of Vapor in hand. Even more impressive 
is the use of Chain of Vapor inside Doomsday piles, when you didn't even 
have it in hand. To do this we replace GP in the basic SDT pile (IU, 
LED, GP, LED, BW) with a Chain of Vapor:

```
SDT in play:
-> IU, LED, CoV, LED, BW(ToA) BBB+2UUU (7) 10 Storm
```
Cast Doomsday and build the above pile. Tap SDT to draw IU and cast it 
to draw SDT, LED, and Chain of Vapor. Cast SDT and LED. Retain priority 
when you tap SDT to draw a card, and respond by casting Chain of Vapor 
targeting SDT, pass priority. Resolve Chain of Vapor return your SDT to 
your hand, sacrifice a land to put a copy of Chain of Vapor on the stack 
targeting your LED. Resolve CoV copy and sacrifice another land to copy 
CoV and target a nonland permanent your opponent controls. Resolve the 
CoV copy. Resolve SDT's ability and draw Lion's Eye Diamond. Cast SDT 
and cast both LEDs, sacrifice your LEDs for RRR+BBB, tap SDT draw 
Burning Wish, wish for Tendrils of Agony and cast it for at least 20 
lifeloss.

One of the reasons you commonly see 2 Tendrils of Agony in Doomsday 
sideboards is to allow us to board one in against deck where we expect 
to be building Chain of Vapor-Piles. With a maindeck Tendrils of Agony 
we can lower the cost of the above CoV-pile by 1 generic mana.
```
SDT in play:
-> IU, LED, CoV, LED, ToA BBB+1UUU (7) 8 Storm
```
Cast Doomsday and build the above pile. Tap SDT to draw IU and cast it 
to draw SDT, LED, and Chain of Vapor. Cast SDT and LED. Retain priority 
when you tap SDT to draw a card, retain priority when you respond to 
that by casting Chain of Vapor targeting SDT, respond to that by 
sacrificing LED for BBB, pass priority. Resolve Chain of Vapor return 
your SDT to your hand, sacrifice a land to put a copy of Chain of Vapor 
on the stack and target a nonland permanent your opponent controls. 
Resolve Chain of Vapor. Resolve SDT's ability and draw Lion's Eye 
Diamond. Cast SDT and cast LED, sacrifice LED for BBB, tap SDT draw 
Tendrils of Agony and cast it for at least 16 lifeloss.

Unfortunately, additional draw effects can't really help to reduce the 
cost of the Chain of Vapor piles. If you have SDT + GP the best you can 
do is to build a 4-card SDT pile with a Chain of Vapor on top, use GP to 
draw it, and simply cast CoV on whatever permanent you want to bounce 
without doing anything fancy for BBB+1UUU, but that's about it.

In summary, when you have SDT in play and you can produce an additional 
1U you can get rid of any single problematic permanent your opponent may 
have. This is one of the greatest strengths of Doomsday over other 
Legacy storm decks. It allows you to care very little whether your 
opponents has a Gaddock Teeg or a Leyline of Sanctity in play. The 
biggest limitation is that you require an SDT in play, or an Ideas 
Unbound in hand, in this last case you can switch the IU with SDT in the 
pile. The additional 1U can be reduced to just +U when you play ToA 
main.

## Without Sensei's Divining Top

Not having Sensei's Divining Top or Ideas Unbound means you can't build 
a Chain of Vapor pile. Should you have the Chain of Vapor in hand, the 
best thing you can do is to simply cast CoV and win with a regular pile. 
In these situations you commonly cast CoV in your opponent's end step 
and just win on your turn, unless you also want to use CoV to increase 
storm count.

If you don't have SDT in play or CoV in hand, inserting a CoV in your 
Doomsday pile costs you a card in the pile. The easiest target to 
replace in a pile is Lion's Eye Diamond, which can be replaced by just 
having more mana. The main problem is that the cost of the pile is 
significantly increased, usually by 3 mana. Fortunately, we can also 
lower the cost of a pile by including Tendrils of Agony, this saves the 
2 mana required for casting Burning Wish, at the cost of 1 storm count. 
What we get is the following:

```
GP in hand:
IU, LED, CoV, GP, ToA BBB+1UUU (7) 8 Storm
```
GP draws IU, cast IU to draw LED, CoV, and GP, cast LED, cast CoV, 
bounce LED and copy to bounce a nonland permanent your opponent 
controls, replay LED, cast GP, sacrifice LED in response for BBB, draw 
and cast Tendrils of Agony. If you look back at the SDT in play pile, 
the cost and storm count of this pile are exactly similar. So this is an 
efficient solution when you don't have SDT in play, but it also shows 
how important it is to board in Tendrils of Agony. Without the Tendrils, 
the cost of this pile increases by 1R to cast Burning Wish.

This last type of pile is usually not considered a Chain of Vapor-pile, 
because it lacks the interaction with SDT. You may however replace the 
CoV in the above pile with, for example, any card that gets rid of a 
creature. The cheapest examples are Slaughter Pact and Karakas, and 
occasionally you see Deathmark or Disfigure as sideboard cards. The 
advantage of Deathmark is that it may be a wish target game 1 and a card 
used inside piles in game 2/3. Karakas has the advantage that it can get 
rid of Gaddock Teeg even when your opponent as an active Mother of 
Runes.
